And now we've reached the end of the very
long list of things that we set out to do,
which is pretty cool.
I know it started off pretty slow, and
then it kind of exponentially grew.
And well, that's the case with everything.
So just a recap on some of
the things that we learned.
We learned about what is React Native and
what problem is it solving.
We learned about what's the difference
between Expo and plain React Native.
We looked at how we can debug our code.
We had a very quick intro into React.
We looked at how to style components
using the style sheets, and without.
We looked at component-based architecture
in React Native applications.
We looked at how to display lists in
a mobile optimized way using FlatLists and
SectionLists.
Looked at what navigation options
are available for React Native, and
we wired up React navigation.
For the React Native-specific parts,
we looked at how to actually
install native modules.
We covered the main three React hooks.
We looked at how to fetch
data from network requests.
We added a pull to
refresh to our FlatLists.
We looked at launching a modal, and
we had an overview of how to build forms.
So that is a huge amount we covered.
I'm very proud of us.
It was actually very difficult for
me to put together this course.
Because as I was adding things, I found
a million other things I wanted to add.
But unfortunately, I can't keep everyone
around for hours and hours on end.
And so I've added just a couple of ideas
that what you might want to look into that
I really wanted to cover today,
but it just didn't fit in.
One of the main things that I was really
ashamed to have cut from this course was
animation.
Honestly, animation could
be a workshop on it's own.
Because you can't do CSS animations and
React Native, animation is done using
an animation prop that's built in.
And you actually have to check
the values that do the animation.
So there's actually a lot that goes
into that, it's quite an advanced topic.
And I couldn't really
figure out a way to just
have a small amount of animation
in that in a meaningful way.
So that's something to look
into if you're interested.
There's the animated API,
which is built into React Native.
And if you're interested in pure native
animations in a library that's like
already existing,
you can check out Lottie.
Which is from,
it's in React Native community now.
It's by Airbnb, but basically it's
very pretty animations in React Native.
The other thing that I just really
wanted to mention Is about images.
So React Native has an image
component that's built in, but
it's really not very optimal.
And that's another one of the things that
is in there because you should be able to
display images.
But Facebook themselves don't use it, so
they don't really spend
much time optimizing it.
So most React Native applications
actually end up using
something like React Native Fast Image.
Because the image component that's built
into React Native doesn't really do any
caching, and it's not really optimal for
sustained applications.
The other thing we kinda looked
into what we didn't actually add,
is a bottom tab navigator.
Obviously most mobile applications
will have bottom tab navigation.
But we ran out of time and
features to add it.
So that's something to check out, and
there's some documentation for it here.
There's also React Hook that I
actually use very often day to day.
But I didn't really feel like there
was any need to add a fourth one,
cuz there was already
an information overload.
So you should really check out useMemo,
which is a really handy function for
creating memoised values
which are dynamic.
There's also a couple of topics that I
added here under extra credit that you
could check out on your own time.
If you're using, especially if you
did this workup workshop with Expo,
you could have a look
at ejecting from Expo.
So basically what you do is you go to
your Expo project and you run expo eject.
And what this does is it converts your
Expo project into a React Native project.
So the folder structure will actually
end up looking exactly like mine.
So you'll have the Android folder,
iOS folder, and
you'll have to figure out how to
manage the application yourself.
The other thing that you could look
into his platform-specific code.
So most of the time, we really want to
just have our one code base stream.
But sometimes it's just not possible.
So there are a couple of
really nice built-in ways
that you can toggle
things between platforms.
You can either have an individual
parameter that's conditionally rendered.
Or you can just have a whole file where,
on Android picks up one,
and on iOS the other.
And finally,
if you are serious about React Native, and
you're going to go to production,
there is some security concerns
that you should probably look into.
Just to be aware of
the common misconceptions.
So here are some, this is actually
a copy of some security documentation
that I wrote for the React Native
docs that is currently in a PR.
But I've copied it here for convenience.
And once he gets merged, I will just
link to the official documentation.
Some other advanced topics that
you might want to consider.
You could look into CodePush.
CodePush is basically a tool that allows
you to do over-the-air updates for
you deployed app.
It's kind of what Expo does,
but you manage it yourself.
So you have your Native app in the App
Store, and people have it on their phone.
And then rather than them having
to go to the App Store and update,
you can send the updated JavaScript
bundle over the air to them.
So it would be more like web update,
which is pretty cool.
I added two testing
libraries to React Native.
So Detox is the go-to library for
interim testing.
You can write tests in JavaScript, so
it's quite nice for very new developers.
And then for unit testing, if you test
anything with the actual React components,
React Native Testing Library
is pretty handy.
And finally, for
automating the building and
releasing of your apps,
Fastlane is a cool thing to check out.
Because it manages some of the more
difficult things like credentials and
keys on the store.
>> I noticed there's two different
React Native testing libraries.
There's one that has an owl for
a logo and another one that's a whale.
[LAUGH] You linked to the owl one,
but did you have any opinion,
or do you know that there's
another one with the same name?
>> Do you mean the native testing library?
>> There's one at
nativetestinglibrary.com.
>> Yeah, I think it's this one.
So I have used
React Native Testing Library, and
I've had good results in there,
which is why I clicked on this one.
Thank you so much for taking the course.
Really my goal today was just
to show you how I build things.
My goal was to Google things,
look at the documentation, and
then just write things from scratch
the way I write them day to day.
So I hope it was useful for you, and
you'll be building lots of
awesome apps using these tools.
Thank you very much.
>> [APPLAUSE]